plants/whatsnew.md, before:

- New genomes

- [Avena atlantica](/Avena_atlantica_cc7277) : assembly from [INSDC](http://www.insdc.org) and is linked to the assembly accession [GCA_910589765.1](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/browser/view/GCA_910589765.1) and annotation from [Leibniz Institute of Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research](https://www.ipk-gatersleben.de/en/).
    
- [Avena eriantha](/Avena_eriantha_byu132) : assembly from [INSDC](http://www.insdc.org) and is linked to the assembly accession [GCA_910589775.1](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/browser/view/GCA_910589775.1) and annotation from [Leibniz Institute of Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research](https://www.ipk-gatersleben.de/en/).

- [Avena insularis](/Avena_insularis_byu209) : assembly from [INSDC](http://www.insdc.org) and is linked to the assembly accession [GCA_910574615.1](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/browser/view/GCA_910574615.1) and annotation from [Leibniz Institute of Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research](https://www.ipk-gatersleben.de/en/).

- [Avena longiglumis](/Avena_longiglumis_cn58138) : assembly from [INSDC](http://www.insdc.org) and is linked to the assembly accession [GCA_910589755.1](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/browser/view/GCA_910589755.1) and annotation from [Leibniz Institute of Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research](https://www.ipk-gatersleben.de/en/).

- [Lablab purpureus](/Lablab_purpureus_GCA_030347555.1cm) : assembly from [INSDC](http://www.insdc.org) and is linked to the assembly accession [GCA_030347555.1](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/datasets/genome/GCA_030347555.1/) and annotation from [John Innes Centre](https://www.jic.ac.uk/).

- [Pisum sativum JI2822](/Pisum_sativum_GCA_964186695.1gb) : assembly from [INSDC](http://www.insdc.org) and is linked to the assembly accession [GCA_964186695.1](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/datasets/genome/GCA_964186695.1/) and annotation from [John Innes Centre](https://www.jic.ac.uk/).

- [Pisum sativum Zhongwan6](/Pisum_sativum_GCA_024323335.2gb) : assembly from [INSDC](http://www.insdc.org) and is linked to the assembly accession [GCA_024323335.2](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/datasets/genome/GCA_024323335.2/) and annotation from [ Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences](https://english.im.cas.cn).


Check which features are supported on each species [here](https://plants.ensembl.org/species.html); if you would like to request a new species please email [Helpdesk](http://plants.ensembl.org/Help/Contact).

Commit message:

Added whatsnew.md file for 116

plants/whatsnew.md, after:

New genomes

- [Avena byzantina PI258586](/Avena_byzantina_pi258586) : assembly from [INSDC](https://www.insdc.org) and is linked to the assembly accession [GCA_910574625.1](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/browser/view/GCA_910574625.1) and annotation from [Leibniz Institute of Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research](https://www.ipk-gatersleben.de/en/).

- [Avena magna x Avena longiglumis](/Avena_magna_avena_longiglumis_gca947310255v1cm) : assembly from [INSDC](https://www.insdc.org) and is linked to the assembly accession [GCA_947310255.1](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/browser/view/GCA_947310255.1) and annotation from [Leibniz Institute of Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research](https://www.ipk-gatersleben.de/en/).

- [Avena occidentalis CN25955](/Avena_occidentalis_cn25955) : assembly from [INSDC](https://www.insdc.org) and is linked to the assembly accession [GCA_947310975.1](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/browser/view/GCA_947310975.1) and annotation from [Leibniz Institute of Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research](https://www.ipk-gatersleben.de/en/).

- [Avena sterilis TN1](/Avena_sterilis_tn1) : assembly from [INSDC](https://www.insdc.org) and is linked to the assembly accession [GCA_947313225.1](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/browser/view/GCA_947313225.1) and annotation from [Leibniz Institute of Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research](https://www.ipk-gatersleben.de/en/).

- [Avena sterilis TN4](/Avena_sterilis_tn4) : assembly from [INSDC](https://www.insdc.org) and is linked to the assembly accession [GCA_947313515.1](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/browser/view/GCA_947313515.1) and annotation from [Leibniz Institute of Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research](https://www.ipk-gatersleben.de/en/).

- [Gossypium raimondii GPD5lz](/Gossypium_raimondii_GCA_025698545.1rs) : assembly from [INSDC](https://www.insdc.org) and is linked to the assembly accession [GCA_025698545.1](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/browser/view/GCA_025698545.1) and annotation from [NCBI RefSeq](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genome/annotation_euk/Gossypium_raimondii/101).

- Oat pangenome : 22 new cultivars of *Avena sativa* are added [here](https://plants.ensembl.org/Avena_sativa_OT3098/Info/Cultivars?db=core).

- Oat reference genome has been changed from [*Avena sativa Sang*](https://plants.ensembl.org/Avena_sativa_Sang/Info/Index) to [*Avena sativa OT3098*](https://plants.ensembl.org/Avena_sativa_OT3098/Info/Index).

Updated genomes

- [Cajanus_cajan](/Cajanus_cajan_GCA_000340665.2gb) : assembly from [INSDC](https://www.insdc.org) and is linked to the assembly accession [GCA_000340665.2](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/browser/view/GCA_000340665.2) and annotation from [BGI](https://english.big.cas.cn/).

- [Cynara cardunculus Scolymus](/Cynara_cardunculus_GCA_001531365.2gb) : assembly from [INSDC](https://www.insdc.org) and is linked to the assembly accession [GCA_001531365.2](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/browser/view/GCA_001531365.2) and annotation from [Compositae Genome Project](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/datasets/genome/GCA_001531365.2/).

- [Lactuca sativa Salinas](/Lactuca_sativa_GCA_002870075.4gb) : assembly from [INSDC](https://www.insdc.org) and is linked to the assembly accession [GCA_002870075.4](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/browser/view/GCA_002870075.4) and annotation from Lettuce Genome Sequencing Consortium.

- [Nymphaea colorata Beijing-Zhang1983](/Nymphaea_colorata_GCA_008831285.2rs) : assembly from [INSDC](https://www.insdc.org) and is linked to the assembly accession [GCA_008831285.2](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/browser/view/GCA_008831285.2) and annotation from  [NCBI RefSeq](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genome/annotation_euk/Nymphaea_colorata/101).

- [Quercus suber HL8](/Quercus_suber_gcf002906115v3rs) : assembly from [INSDC](https://www.insdc.org) and is linked to the assembly accession [GCA_002906115.3](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/browser/view/GCA_002906115.3) and annotation from [NCBI RefSeq](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genome/annotation_euk/Quercus_suber/GCF_002906115.3-RS_2024_06.html).

- [Solanum lycopersicum Heinz1706](/Solanum_lycopersicum_GCA_000188115.5cm) : assembly from [INSDC](https://www.insdc.org) and is linked to the assembly accession [GCA_000188115.5](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/browser/view/GCA_000188115.5) and annotation from  [Solanaceae Genomics Project](https://solgenomics.net/organism/Solanum_lycopersicum/genome).

- [Vigna unguiculata IT97K-499-35](/Vigna_unguiculata_GCA_004118075.2rs) : assembly from [INSDC](https://www.insdc.org) and is linked to the assembly accession [GCA_004118075.2](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/data/view/GCA_004118075.2) and annotation from [NCBI RefSeq](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/datasets/gene/GCF_004118075.2).

Check which features are supported on each species [here](https://plants.ensembl.org/species.html); if you would like to request a new species please email [Helpdesk](https://plants.ensembl.org/Help/Contact).
