About *Anopheles farauti*
-------------------------

### Range

*Anopheles farauti* is a complex of seven species distributed in the
Moluccas (Indonesia) and extend eastward through Papua New Guinea (the
Admiralty Islands and the Bismarck Archipelago), the Solomon Islands,
the New Hebrides (Vanuatu) and Australia. *Anopheles farauti* *sensu
stricto* (formerly *A. farauti 1*) is distributed in Papua New Guinea
and Australia where it is and it was a malaria vector, respectively.

### Habitats

Collectively, the *Farauti* Complex shows an ability to use a great
variety of aquatic habitats,. with selection dependent on habitat
availability and influenced by dry and wet season precipitation
patterns. Sites can be shaded or sunlit but usually consist of open
areas away from heavy shade (canopy). The complex, being large and
ecologically diverse, can utilise tidal and coastal brackish zones and a
variety of inland fresh-water sites. In general, relatively little is
known definitively about the ecology and behaviour of most of the
species in the *Farauti* Complex but salinity tolerance appears to be a
major factor in species distribution within this Complex. For example,
*An. hinesorum* has far less tolerance for salinity than *An. farauti*
and appears restricted to inland freshwater locations. However, the
degree of tolerance may be variable within a species range. *An.
farauti s.s.* is predominately found within 1 km of coastal areas and
is replaced by other members in the Complex further inland. An. irenicus
shares the high salt-tolerance capabilities of *An. farauti s.s*.
however, it is only found in freshwater habitats. Larvae of *An. farauti
s.l*. are commonly found in natural, rain-fed temporary pools to larger
semi-permanent to permanent bodies of ground water, usually with some
varying degree of floating or emergent vegetation (e.g. Ipomoea
aquatica). They also sometimes occur in artificial containers, drums,
coconut shells, canoes and other unusual habitats. A*n. farauti s. s.*
can occupy brackish water pools high in organic debris and subject to
tidal fluctuations in areas where vast stretches of mangroves occupy the
coastline. Natural sites ranging from swamps (non-peat), dead river arms
(oxbows) and open river flats to artificial sites including fish ponds
and large ditches, burrow pits, pig wallows, garden pools and pools
created along stream and river margins. *An. farauti s.s.* is sometimes
found with *An. punctulatus* even though it generally prefers more
undisturbed habitats.

### Resting and feeding preferences

Adult members of the Complex appear to exhibit a preference for certain
hosts in different regions. The time of peak biting activity also varies
by locality. The heterogeneous behavioural patterns are related to
differences between the individual species of the complex. *Anopheles
irenicus* is not anthropophilic whereas *An. farauti s.s.* readily bites
humans. Feeding of *An. farauti s.l.* is mainly nocturnal and continues
throughout the evening, however, daytime biting can occur. Although
females will feed on birds and mammals, and when near human habitation,
will often feed on domestic dogs, pigs and cattle, they have a higher
preference for biting humans in most areas. Host preference also appears
to depend on the availability of host types. Adult females will readily
attack humans inside and outside houses. Indoor resting behaviour occurs
before and after feeding, but habits are varied. Individuals that feed
inside houses may rest indoors for a period of time but the majority
will exit before dawn to rest outdoors. Daytime resting sites include
cool, damp and darkened places near ground level. Daytime indoor resting
has also been observed. Feeding frequency and peak activity is variable
by locality and influenced by prevailing conditions and season, with
some areas recording fairly uniform biting throughout the night. Other
locations have seen peaks around or after midnight with other sites
showing the majority of biting occurring before midnight. Early evening
peaks have also been recorded in some localities.

### Vectorial capacity

*An. farauti s.s.*, *An. hinesorum* and *An. farauti No. 4* are
considered to be important malaria vectors. *An. farauti s.s.* is an
important vector in the Solomon Islands and the islands of Buka and
Bougainville, Papua New Guinea. A newly identified taxon, tentatively
named *An. farauti No. 8* has also been incriminated as a vector of
malaria in Papua New Guinea, and *An. farauti No. 6* appears, based on
circumstantial evidence, to be a major vector in the highland river
valleys and intramontane plains of New Guinea up to 2000m or higher.
*An. irenicus* is not considered to have an important role in malaria
transmission.

*FAR1* strain
-------------

Originally collected in 1967 from Papua New Guinea (Rabaul, East New
Britain Province), isofemale selection was performed prior to genome
sequencing. This tsrain is available from [BEI
resources.](https://www.beiresources.org)

Source:
[VectorBase](https://veupathdb.org/veupathdb/app/search/dataset/AllDatasets/result?filterTerm=GCA_000473445.2)

Picture credit: 
James Gathany, CDC [Public domain](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Main_Page) via Wikimedia Commons [(Image source)](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Anopheles-farauti.png)
