About *Anopheles atroparvus*
----------------------------

### Range

*Anopheles atroparvus* belongs to the *A. maculipennis* species complex.
*Anopheles atroparvus* is distributed in northern and western Europe,
Spain, Portugal and northern Italy and was one of the main malaria
vectors in Europe.

### Habitats

*An. atroparvus* is described as a species with a preference for
brackish larval habitats, however, it has been found in a number of
predominantly fresh water habitats as well. For example larvae have been
found in canals, ditches, river margins, pools in river beds and rice
fields. Larvae have been identified in marshes and ditches/ ground flood
pools, pools in river beds, river margins and streams, rock pools,
cement tanks, rice fields, wells and ground pools and in small
collections of water in used tyres. It prefers relatively cool water,
and therefore its range is not considered to overlap with *An.
labranchiae*. Sites may usually be sun exposed and often contain
filamentous green algae and other floating submerged vegetation.

### Resting and feeding preferences

*An. atroparvus* is generally considered zoophilic, however, it has also
been described as anthropophilic, which perhaps indicates the
opportunistic nature of this species. Collection of *An. atroparvus* has
been reported during night catches on horse bait, from indoor resting
sites and during day- or night-time catches on humans. There is no clear
evidence that identifies this species as preferentially biting indoors
or outdoors. The opportunistic nature of its feeding habits and
zoophilic preference, however, would suggest it is probably exophagic
but that biting location could also depend upon the setting and
accessibility of the host. *An. atroparvus* rests and hibernates in
animal sheds and stables.

### Vectorial capacity

*An. atroparvus* is largely unable to transmit tropical strains of
*Plasmodium falciparum* but competent in supporting a European strain.

This text was modified from Sinka ME et al. (2010) [The dominant
Anopheles vectors of human malaria in Africa, Europe and the Middle
East: occurrence data, distribution maps and bionomic
pr√©cis](http://www.parasitesandvectors.com/content/3/1/117) Parasites &
Vectors 3:117.

*EBRO* strain
-------------

Originally isolated from Spain, isofemale selection was performed prior
to genome sequencing. For more details [click
here](https://www.beiresources.org/Catalog/BEIVectors/MRA-493.aspx).

Source:
[VectorBase](https://veupathdb.org/veupathdb/app/search/dataset/AllDatasets/result?filterTerm=GCA_000473505.1)
