### Assembly

The wheat genome was assembled by the [International Wheat Genome
Sequencing Consortium](http://europepmc.org/abstract/MED/30115783).
Pseudomolecule sequences representing the 21 chromosomes of the bread
wheat genome were assembled by integrating a draft de novo whole-genome
assembly, built from Illumina short-read sequences using NRGene
deNovoMagic2, with additional layers of genetic, physical, and sequence
data. In the resulting 14.5-Gb genome assembly, contigs and scaffolds
with N50s of 52 kb and 7 Mb, respectively, were linked into
superscaffolds (N50 = 22.8 Mb), with 97% (14.1 Gb) of the sequences
assigned and ordered along the 21 chromosomes and almost all of the
assigned sequence scaffolds oriented relative to each other (13.8 Gb,
98%). Unanchored scaffolds comprising 481 Mb (2.8% of the assembly
length) formed the "unassigned chromosome" (ChrUn) bin. The quality and
contiguity of the IWGSC RefSeq v1.0 genome assembly were assessed
through alignments with radiation hybrid maps for the A, B, and D
subgenomes [average Spearman's correlation coefficient (r) of 0.98],
the genetic positions of 7832 and 4745 genotyping-by-sequencing derived
genetic markers in 88 double haploid and 993 recombinant inbred lines
(Spearman's r of 0.986 and 0.987, respectively), and 1.24 million pairs
of neighbour insertion site-based polymorphism (ISBP) markers, of which
97% were collinear and mapped in a similar size range (difference of
less than 2 kb) between the de novo assembly and the available bacterial
artificial chromosome (BAC)-based sequence assemblies. Finally, IWGSC
RefSeq v1.0 was assessed with independent data derived from coding and
noncoding sequences, revealing that 99 and 98% of the previously known
coding exons and transposable element (TE)-derived (ISBP) markers
(table S9), respectively, were present in the assembly. The approximate
1 Gb size difference between IWGSC RefSeq v1.0 and the new genome size
estimates of 15.4 to 15.8 Gb can be accounted for by collapsed or
unassembled sequences of highly repeated clusters, such as ribosomal RNA
coding regions and telomeric sequences [1]. 

This assembly is for the reference Chinese Spring wheat cultivar.
