About *Leptotrombidium deliense*
--------------------------------

There are very few known human diseases that involve pathogens
transmitted by mites; the most important is tsutsugamushi disease, or
scrub typhus, caused by the bacterium (*Orientia tsutsugamushi*) that is
transmitted by several members of the genus *Leptotrombidium*
(/ˌlɛptoʊtrɒmˈbɪdiəm/) (Family Trombiculidae) in south eastern Asia,
Australia and the pacific islands (Mullen and Durden, 2002).

The life cycle of the mite includes 7 stages: egg, deutovum (or
prelarva), larva, nymphochrysalis, nymph, imagochrysalis and adult. Of
these stages only the larva (known as \'chiggers\') is an ectoparasitic
stage which feeds on a wide variety of hosts (rodents, but also
occasionally humans and other large mammals) , whereas the nymphs and
adults are predators of other arthropods ([Makepeace B.L. et al,
\"Genomes of trombidid mites reveal novel predicted allergens and
laterally transferred genes associated with secondary metabolism \",
Giga Science,
2018](https://academic.oup.com/gigascience/article/7/12/giy127/5160133)).
Larvae ingest tissue exudates via a feeding tube (\'stylostome\') that
is formed at the attachemnet site, but which is extraneous to the larval
mouthparts.

Strain UoL-UT
-------------

Leptotrombidium deliense isolate UoL-UT collected from Berdmore\'s
ground squirrels (Menetes berdmorei) captured in Udonthani Province,
Thailand, in September 2015. BioSample record SAMN06473100.

UoL-UT represents an isolate from the wild, and is not a propagated
laboratory strain. It was used for the generation of the VectorBase
reference assembly LdelU1

Sources:
[VectorBase](https://veupathdb.org/veupathdb/app/search/dataset/AllDatasets/result?filterTerm=GCA_003675905.1)
and [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leptotrombidium).

Picture credit: Dr Kittipong Chaisiri, Mahidol University
