About *Anopheles dirus*
-----------------------

### Range

The *Anopheles dirus* complex includes non-vector and vector species of
human malaria. *Anopheles dirus* (formerly *A. dirus species A*) is
distributed in eastern Asia (Myanmar, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam,
and Hainan Island in China).

### Habitats

Members of the *Dirus* Complex inhabit forested mountains and foothills,
cultivated forests, plantations (e.g. rubber) and forest fringes. Larvae
typically inhabit small, shallow, usually temporary, mostly shaded
bodies of fresh, stagnant (or very slowly flowing) water, such as pools,
puddles, small pits (e.g. gem pits), animal footprints (e.g. elephant
footprints), wheel ruts, hollow logs, streams and even wells located in
primary, secondary evergreen or deciduous forests, bamboo forests and
fruit or rubber plantations. Water can be clear or turbid, and habitats
with nitrogenous wastes, due to elephant and buffalo excreta or rotten
leaves, appear more productive. These species are most abundant during
the rainy (monsoon) season due to the larval requirement and oviposition
preference for small temporary pools.

### Resting and feeding preferences

*An. dirus* and *An. baimaii* are highly anthropophilic, exophagic as
well as endophagic, and exophilic. Studies have shown that biting
activity is species-specific, for example in Thailand, *An. dirus* has a
tendency to bite between 20:00 and 23:00 and An. baimaii from 22:00 to
02:00, although in India earlier biting at 20:00 to 21:00 was also
recorded for An. baimaii. An. scanloni is also anthropophilic and is an
early evening biter with peak activity starting at dusk, between 18:00
to 19:00.

### Vectorial capacity

*An. dirus* is a very efficient vector Its long life and highly
anthropophilic nature means that only a small population is necessary to
maintain high malaria endemicity. The situation is, however, more
complicated because the *Dirus* Complex includes seven species that vary
from highly competent vectors of malaria to non-vectors. The primary
disease vectors are *An. dirus* and *An. baimaii* which both transmit
*Plasmodium falciparum* and *P. vivax*. *An. scanloniplays* a more focal
role in malaria transmission of both *P. falciparum* and *P. vivax* in
Thailand. There is no clear evidence that *An. cracens* (restricted to
the Thai-Malaysian peninsular) and *An. elegans (*only present in hill
forests of southwestern India) are involved in malaria transmission. The
two remaining species of the complex, *An. nemophilous* and *An.
takasagoensis*, (the latter species being restricted to Taiwan) appear
to be non-vectors of human malaria due to their strict zoophilic
behaviour.

This text was modified from Sinka ME et al. (2011) [The dominant
Anopheles vectors of human malaria in Asia-Pacific: occurrence data,
distribution maps and bionomic
pr√©cis](http://www.parasitesandvectors.com/content/4/1/89) Parasites &
Vectors 4:89.

*WRAIR2* Strain
---------------

Originally isolated in Thailand this colony has undergone isofemale
selection, and is available from [BEI
resources](https://www.beiresources.org).

Source:
[VectorBase](https://veupathdb.org/veupathdb/app/search/dataset/AllDatasets/result?filterTerm=GCA_000349145.1)
