About *Daphnia pulex*
---------------------

*Daphnia pulex*, the common water flea, is a microcrustacean arthropod
(typically 0.2-3.0 mm long) found ubiquitously in freshwater around the
globe, predominately in small ponds and ephemeral pools. *D. pulex* live
for around 10-30 days, but can live up to 100 days in the absence of
predation. Their anatomy is easily studied, due to the see-through
carapce which reveals the internal organs at work.

*Daphnia pulex* is sensitive to environmental changes and exhibits
context-dependent responses (e.g. switching from clonal to sexual
reproduction, or rapidly changing haemoglobin levels) that make it a
sensible agent to assess the ecological impact of environmental
fluctuations. Predation can induce a range of morphological changes in
*D. pulex.* In response to kairomones (chemicals released by predatory
insect larvae), *D. pulex* develop small protusions (neckteeth) that act
as a defence mechanism. It can also change size to avoid either
detection by larger vertebrate predators, or consumption by smaller
invertebrate predators.

In addition to its usefulness in a variety of research areas (including
ecology, toxicology, and physiology), in evolutionary terms *Daphnia
pulex* is important as a representative of the sister group to the
insects, and can highlight genes present in the pancrustacean common
ancestor.


Picture credit: [Creative Commons Attribution 2.5](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.5) via Wikimedia Commons [(Image source)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Daphnia_pulex.png)
Taxonomy ID [6669](https://www.uniprot.org/taxonomy/6669)

(Text from [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/).)

**More information**
General information about this species can be found in [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daphnia_pulex)
