About *Anopheles merus*
-----------------------

### Range

*Anopheles merus* belongs to the *Anopheles gambiae* species complex,
which consists of at least seven species, and it is a locally important
vector in eastern and southern Africa where it is mainly found along the
coast.

### Habitats

*An. merus* is found in high numbers in shallow brackish pools and marsh
or swamp areas along the coast. As a consequence, this species does not
exhibit density changes in response to tidal fluctuations nor does it
appear to tolerate very high levels of salinity. It is rarely found in
the mangrove forests on the east coast of Africa, however this may be
due to the composition of the trees and soil type under of the stands of
mangrove in this zone rather than inherent behavioural patterns. *An.
merus* is known to occur inland, using salt pans and saline pools as
larval habitats.

### Resting and feeding preferences

*An. merus* is generally opportunistic in host selection, depending on
host availability and females have a tendency to bite and rest outdoors.
The biting times of *An. merus* on the Kenyan coast have been reported
as gradually rising from early evening (18:00) peaking between midnight
and 01:00 and then declining until 06:00, which reflects the accepted
biting pattern for this species across its range.

### Vectorial capacity

*An. merus* has previously been considered as only a minor or
unimportant vector, however, it has been identified as playing an
unexpectedly important role along the Tanzanian coast and more recently
in Mozambique.

This text was modified from Sinka ME et al. (2010) [The dominant
Anopheles vectors of human malaria in Africa, Europe and the Middle
East: occurrence data, distribution maps and bionomic
pr√©cis](http://www.parasitesandvectors.com/content/3/1/117) Parasites &
Vectors 3:117.

*MAF* strain
------------

Originally isolated from South Africa (Mafayeni, Kruger National Park),
isofemale selection was performed prior to genome sequencing. This
strain is available from [BEI resources](http://www.beiresources.org/).

Source:
[VectorBase](https://veupathdb.org/veupathdb/app/search/dataset/AllDatasets/result?filterTerm=GCA_000473845.2)

Picture credit: 
James Gathany, CDC [Public domain](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Main_Page) via Wikimedia Commons [(Image source)](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Anopheles-merus.png)
