About *Anopheles stephensi*
---------------------------

### Range

*Anopheles stephensi* is a major malaria vector with a geographical
range from the Middle East through the Indian subcontinent and China.
Throughout its natural range, *Anopheles* *stephensi* is an important
vector for both *Plasmodium* *falciparum* and *Plasmodium vivax*. The
strain used for this genome sequencing project is the Indian Wild Type
strain originally established at the Walter Reed Army Institute of
Research. It belongs to the \"type\" biological form and has a
segregating 2Rb inversion.

### Habitats

Larvae of *An. stephensi* breed in various artificial containers in
homes and collections of water associated with construction sites and
other industrial locations. In rural areas, *An*. *stephensi* larvae
utilise fresh-water pools, stream margins and stream beds, catch basins,
seepage canals, wells and domestic water-storage containers. Larvae have
also been found in domestic wells, overhead water tanks, room coolers,
cisterns and roof gutters in the city of Delhi, but greater numbers of
larvae are typically found outdoors compared with indoors. Larvae of the
mysorensis form (distinguishable by egg morphology) appear to
exclusively inhabit stone pots and earthenware containers. In rural
areas of Gujarat, *An. stephensi* is associated with canal-irrigated,
non-irrigated and riverine villages all year round, but generally in low
densities. In urban areas, *An. stephensi* is found throughout the year,
but is most abundant in the summer months (between June and August),
which coincides with the peak period of malaria transmission.

### Resting and feeding preferences

*An. stephensi* is generally considered to be an endophilic and
endophagic species even though it will bite outdoors during the warmer
summer months due to greater outdoor activity of humans and domestic
animals. This species rests primarily in temporary or poorly constructed
human and animal shelters rather than brick structures. Outdoor
blood-feeding activity varies seasonally, with females feeding later in
the night during the summer months compared to the winter months.
However, indoor biting frequencies of *An. stephensi* appear to show no
marked seasonal variation during different months of the year.
Blood-meal analyses of *An. stephensi* females collected in urban areas
indicated an increased tendency to feed on humans rather than cattle and
other indications of variable anthropophily have been observed,
depending on the availability of alternative hosts.

### Vectorial capacity

*An. stephensi* is recognised as an important vector of malaria in urban
areas bordering the Persian Gulf, including western and northwestern
India. There are three known forms of *An*. *stephensi* including the
typical form which is an efficient vector of urban malaria, the
intermediate form, which is typically found in rural villages and
peri-urban areas, but very little is known about its vector status, and
the mysorensis form which is restricted to rural areas with poor
vectorial capacity due to its highly zoophilic behaviour. The mysorensis
form is, however, considered an important vector in Iran.

This text was modified from Sinka ME et al. (2011) [The dominant
Anopheles vectors of human malaria in Asia-Pacific: occurrence data,
distribution maps and bionomic
pr√©cis](http://www.parasitesandvectors.com/content/4/1/89) Parasites &
Vectors 4:89.

*SDA-500* strain
----------------

Originally isolated from Pakistan, isofemale selection was performed
prior to genome sequencing.

For more details about the strain:

Neafsey et al (121 authors). 2015. Highly evolvable malaria vectors:
***The genomes of 16 Anopheles mosquitoes***. Science. Published Online
November 27 2014

Source:
[VectorBase](https://veupathdb.org/veupathdb/app/search/dataset/AllDatasets/result?filterTerm=GCA_000349045.1)

Picture credit: 
Jim Gathany, CDC [Public domain](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Main_Page) via Wikimedia Commons [(Image source)](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Anopheles_stephensi.jpeg)

