About *Aspergillus fumigatus Z5 (GCA\_001029325)* 
-------------------------------------------------



***Aspergillus fumigatus*** is a species of fungus in the genus
*Aspergillus*, and is one of the most common *Aspergillus* species to
cause disease in individuals with an immunodeficiency.

*Aspergillus fumigatus*, a saprotroph widespread in nature, is typically
found in soil and decaying organic matter, such as compost heaps, where
it plays an essential role in carbon and nitrogen recycling. Colonies of
the fungus produce from conidiophores thousands of minute grey-green
conidia (2--3 Î¼m) that readily become airborne. For many years, *A.
fumigatus* was thought to only reproduce asexually, as neither mating
nor meiosis had ever been observed. In 2008, however, *A. fumigatus* was
shown to possess a fully functional sexual reproductive cycle, 145 years
after its original description by Fresenius. Although *A. fumigatus*
occurs in areas with widely different climates and environments, it
displays low genetic variation and a lack of population genetic
differentiation on a global scale. Thus, the capability for sex is
maintained, though little genetic variation is produced.

The fungus is capable of growth at (normal human body temperature), and
can grow at temperatures up to , with conidia surviving at ---conditions
it regularly encounters in self-heating compost heaps. Its spores are
ubiquitous in the atmosphere, and everybody inhales an estimated several
hundred spores each day; typically, these are quickly eliminated by the
immune system in healthy individuals. In immunocompromised individuals,
such as organ transplant recipients and people with AIDS or leukemia,
the fungus is more likely to become pathogenic, over-running the host\'s
weakened defenses and causing a range of diseases generally termed
aspergillosis. Several virulence factors have been postulated to explain
this opportunistic behaviour.

When the fermentation broth of *A. fumigatus* was screened, a number of
indolic alkaloids with antimitotic properties were discovered. The
compounds of interest have been of a class known as tryprostatins, with
spirotryprostatin B being of special interest as an anticancer drug.

*Aspergillus fumigatus* grown on certain building materials can produce
genotoxic and cytotoxic mycotoxins, such as gliotoxin.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aspergillus_fumigatus) from
[Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Aspergillus.jpg)
