About *Candida albicans P94015* 
-------------------------------



***Candida albicans*** is a dimorphic fungus that grows both as yeast
and filamentous cells and one of the few species of the *Candida* genus
that cause the infection candidiasis in humans. *C. albicans* is
responsible for 50--90% of all cases of candidiasis in humans. Systemic
fungal infections (fungemias) including those by *C. albicans* have
emerged as important causes of morbidity and mortality in
immunocompromised patients (e.g., AIDS, cancer chemotherapy, organ or
bone marrow transplantation). *C. albicans* biofilms may form on the
surface of implantable medical devices. In addition, hospital-acquired
infections by *C. albicans* have become a cause of major health
concerns. About 85-95% of vaginal infections cases are responsible for
physician office visits every year. Overgrowth of the fungus results in
candidiasis (candidosis). Candidiasis is often observed in
immunocompromised individuals, including HIV-infected patients. It
commonly occurs on mucous membranes in the mouth or vagina, but may
affect a number of other regions. For example, higher prevalence of
colonization of *C. albicans* was reported in young individuals with
tongue piercing, in comparison to unpierced matched individuals. To
infect host tissue, the usual unicellular yeast-like form of *C.
albicans* reacts to environmental cues and switches into an invasive,
multicellular filamentous form, a phenomenon called dimorphism. In
addition, an overgrowth infection is considered superinfection, usually
applied when an infection become opportunistic and very resistant to
antifungals. It then becomes suppressed by antibiotics. The infection is
prolonged when the original sensitive strain is replaced by the
antibiotic-resistant strain.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Candida_albicans) and
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:SEM_of_C_albicans.tif)
from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
