About *Candida albicans 12C (GCA\_000773845)* 
---------------------------------------------



***Candida albicans*** is an opportunistic pathogenic yeast It is one of
the few species of the genus *Candida* that causes the human infection
candidiasis, which results from an overgrowth of the fungus. Candidiasis
is for example often observed in HIV-infected patients. *C. albicans* is
the most common fungal species isolated from biofilms either formed on
(permanent) implanted medical devices or on human tissue. A mortality
rate of 40% has been reported for patients with systemic candidiasis due
to *C. albicans*. By one estimate, invasive candidiasis contracted in a
hospital causes 2800 to 11200 deaths yearly in the US.

*C. albicans* is commonly used as a model organism for biology. It is
generally referred to as a dimorphic fungus since it grows both as yeast
and filamentous cells. However it has several different morphological
phenotypes. *C. albicans* was for a long time considered an obligate
diploid organism without a haploid stage. This is however not the case.
Next to a haploid stage *C. albicans* can also exist in a tetraploid
stage. The latter is formed when diploid *C. albicans* cells mate when
they are in the opaque form. The diploid genome size is approximately
29 Mb, and up to 70% of the protein coding genes have not yet been
characterized. *C. albicans* is easily cultured in the lab and can be
studied both *in vivo* and *in vitro*. Depending on the media different
studies can be done as the media influences the morphological state of
*C. albicans*. A special type of medium is CHROMagar™ Candida which can
be used to identify different species of candida.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Candida_albicans) from
[Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:SEM_of_C_albicans.tif)
