fungi/species/Magnaporthe_oryzae_about.md, before:

About the *Magnaporthe oryzae* genome
-------------------------------------

*Magnaporthe oryzae* (anamorph: *Pyricularia grisea*) also known as rice
blast fungus is an important plant pathogen isolated from rice and a
variety of other rice field weeds. It affects all growth stages of the
plant with severe damage during the seedling stage. This fungi generates
spores that can easily be dispersed by wind and splashing rain. The
spores can spend the Winter in rice grains and rice stubble and can
infect new crops the following year. Infection is more likely over long
periods of rain or high humidity. There are known strains of rice
resistant to this disease that may be helpful for it control.
*Magnaporthe oryzae* is the most important rice pathogen worldwide known
to occur in 85 countries. Every year, the losses in crops due to rice
blast could feed 60 million people. The *Magnaporthe oryzae* genome was
release as part of the *Magnaporthe* comparative database, it as size of
41.03 Mb and encodes about 12,593 protein-coding genes.

Picture credit: [Donald
Groth](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Rice_blast_spores.jpg)

Commit message:

fungi images and about_md's update

fungi/species/Magnaporthe_oryzae_about.md, after:

**About *Magnaporthe oryzae 70-15***
-------------------------
Magnaporthe grisea, also known as rice blast fungus, rice rotten neck, 
rice seedling blight, blast of rice, oval leaf spot of graminea, 
pitting disease, ryegrass blast, Johnson spot, neck blast, wheat blast 
and Imochi (稲熱), is a plant-pathogenic fungus and model organism that 
causes a serious disease affecting rice. It is now known that M. 
grisea consists of a cryptic species complex containing at least two 
biological species that have clear genetic differences and do not 
interbreed. Complex members isolated from Digitaria have been more 
narrowly defined as M. grisea. The remaining members of the complex 
isolated from rice and a variety of other hosts have been renamed 
Magnaporthe oryzae, within the same M. grisea complex. Confusion on 
which of these two names to use for the rice blast pathogen remains, 
as both are now used by different authors.


Picture credit: [Creative Commons Attribution 2.5](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.5) via Wikimedia Commons [(Image source)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Magnaporthe_grisea.jpg)
Taxonomy ID [242507](https://www.uniprot.org/taxonomy/242507)

(Text from [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/).)

**More information**
General information about this species can be found in [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magnaporthe_grisea)
