About *Schizophyllum commune H4-8* 
----------------------------------



***Schizophyllum commune*** is a very common species of mushroom in the
genus Schizophyllum. It was initially described as a morphological
species of global distribution and then revealed to be a species complex
encompassing several cryptic species of more narrow distribution, as
typical of many mushroom-forming Basidiomycota.

Although European and US guidebooks list it as inedible, this is
apparently due to differing standards of taste rather than known
toxicity, being regarded with little culinary interest due to its tough
texture. *S. commune* is, in fact, edible and widely consumed in Mexico
and elsewhere in the tropics. And in North-East India, the state Manipur
called it as \"***Kanglayen***\" and its one of the favourite
ingredients for Manipuri-Pancake Style called ***Paaknam***. In Mizoram,
the local name is ***Pasi*** (*pa* means *mushroom*,*si* means *tiny*)
and it is one of the highest rated edible mushrooms among the Mizo
community. The authors explain the preference for tough, rubbery
mushrooms in the tropics as a consequence of the fact that tender,
fleshy mushrooms quickly rot in the hot humid conditions there, making
their marketing problematic.

The gills, which produce basidiospores on their surface split when the
mushroom dries out, earning this mushroom the common name **Split
Gill**. It has more than 28,000 sexes.

It is common in rotting wood, but can also cause disease in humans.

Hydrophobin was first isolated from *Schizophyllum commune*.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schizophyllum_commune) and
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Schizophyllum_commune_(Split_gill)_(33389628036).jpg)
from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
