About *Anopheles albimanus*
---------------------------

### Range

Anopheles albimanus it is one of the main vectors of malaria in Central
America, northern South America and the Caribbean. On the Atlantic coast
it is found from Texas to Venezuela, on most of the Caribbean islands
and on the Pacific coast, from Mexico to northern Peru.

### Habitat

The larval sites used by *An. albimanus* are characterised across its
range as open, sunlit and containing clear water. The species can be
found in natural and man-made habitats where these characteristics
exist. For example, it occurs in recently planted rice fields, or in
older fields with sunlit areas in between the rice plants. The larvae
tolerate a wide variation in water chemistry and are able to exploit
diverse food sources enabling them to survive in both fresh water (e.g.
irrigation channels, small ponds, marshes, slow flowing streams and
river margins) and brackish water (e.g. mangrove swamps).

### Behaviour

*An. albimanus* is predominantly exophagic with exophilic resting
behaviour, however there is some indication that in the northern reaches
of its distribution (Mexico, Central America), this species exhibits a
preference for resting indoors after feeding. *An. albimanus* bites in
the evening and during the night. It appears to show a tendency for
zoophily, but some reports have indicated anthropophillic activity.

### Vectorial capacity

*An. albimanus* is considered to be a dominant malaria vector species.

This text was modified from Sinka ME et al. (2010) [The dominant
Anopheles vectors of human malaria in the Americas: occurrence data,
distribution maps and bionomic
pr√©cis](http://www.parasitesandvectors.com/content/3/1/72) Parasites &
Vectors 3:72.

*STECLA* strain
---------------

Originally isolated from El Salvador, isofemale subcolony selection was
performed prior to genome sequencing. For more details [click
here.](http://www.mr4.org/MR4ReagentsSearch/livingMosquitoes/MRA-126.aspx)

Source:
[VectorBase](https://veupathdb.org/veupathdb/app/search/dataset/AllDatasets/result?filterTerm=GCA_000349125.2 "Tendency to inhabit/rest in outdoor areas.")

Picture credit:
James Gathany, CDC [Public domain](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Main_Page) via Wikimedia Commons [(Image source)](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Anopheles_albimanus_mosquito.jpg)
