About *Spironucleus salmonicida* 
--------------------------------



***Spironucleus salmonicida*** is a species of fish parasite. It is a
flagellate adapted to micro-aerobic environments that causes systemic
infections in salmonid fish. The species creates foul-smelling,
pus-filled abscesses in muscles and internal organs of aquarium fish. In
the late 1980s when the disease was first reported, it was believed to
be caused by *Spironucleus barkhanus*. Anders JÃ¸rgensen was the person
that found out what species really caused the disease.

There is a distinct lack of models for diverse microbial eukaryotes.
*Spironucleus salmonicida* was chosen as a model due to its complex
genome and ability to adapt to fluctuating environments. This ability
was proven by genetically modifying the pathogen and seeing the results.
By comparing these results with the closest model organism, Giardia
intestinalis, researchers were able to see that the parasite has a more
complex gene regulation system. This system of genetic modification was
also used to sequence the genome for further study.

*Spironucleus salmonicida* contains mitochondrion-related organelles
(MROs). MROS identified in *S. salmonicida* contained similar protein
import and Fe-S machinery as in *Giardia* mitosomes and the MROS
contained the enzyme characteristics similar to hydrogenosomes. Thereby
affirming hydrogen production is prevalent in the genus *Spironucleus*.
Hydrogenosomes produce ATP by substrate-level phosphorylation with
hydrogen as a byproduct.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spironucleus_salmonicida) from
[Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
