About *Trypanosoma brucei equiperdum str. IVM-t1* 
-------------------------------------------------



***Trypanosoma brucei*** is a species of parasitic kinetoplastid
belonging to the genus *Trypanosoma*. The parasite is the cause of a
vector-borne disease of vertebrate animals, including humans, carried by
genera of tsetse fly in sub-Saharan Africa. In humans *T. brucei* causes
African trypanosomiasis, or sleeping sickness. In animals it causes
animal trypanosomiasis, also called nagana in cattle and horses. *T.
brucei* has traditionally been grouped into three subspecies: *T. b.
brucei*, *T. b. gambiense* and *T. b. rhodesiense*. The first is a
parasite of non-human vertebrates, while the latter two are the known
parasites of humans. Only rarely can the *T. b. brucei* infect a human.

*T. brucei* is transmitted between mammal hosts by an insect vector
belonging to different species of tsetse fly (*Glossina*). Transmission
occurs by biting during the insect\'s blood meal. The parasites undergo
complex morphological changes as they move between insect and mammal
over the course of their life cycle. The mammalian bloodstream forms are
notable for their cell surface proteins, variant surface glycoproteins,
which undergo remarkable antigenic variation, enabling persistent
evasion of host adaptive immunity leading to chronic infection. *T.
brucei* is one of only a few pathogens known to cross the blood brain
barrier. There is an urgent need for the development of new drug
therapies, as current treatments can have severe side effects and can
prove fatal to the patient.

Whilst not historically regarded as *T. brucei* subspecies due to their
different means of transmission, clinical presentation, and loss of
kinetoplast DNA, genetic analyses reveal that *T. equiperdum* and *T.
evansi* are evolved from parasites very similar to *T. b. brucei*, and
are thought to be members of the *brucei* clade.

The parasite was discovered in 1894 by Sir David Bruce, after whom the
scientific name was given in 1899.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trypanosoma_brucei) and
[image](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Tb_brucei.jpg) from
[Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
