About *Anopheles maculatus*
---------------------------

### Range

*Anopheles maculatus* complex includes important malaria vectors
distributed from the Indian subcontinent through Southeast Asia to
Taiwan. *Anopheles maculatus B* is a vector member of this complex.

### Habitats

Members of the *Maculatus* Group are typically found in or near hilly
and mountainous areas. Larvae have been collected in a diverse number of
permanent or semi-permanent bodies of clean water that are often exposed
to direct sunlight, including ponds, lakes, swamps, ditches, wells,
different types of pools (grassy, sandy, ground, flood, stream), margins
along small, slow-flowing streams, gravel pits along stream margins,
seepages, springs, rice fields, foot and wheel prints, and occasionally
tree holes and bamboo stumps. More specific studies have shown that each
species has a preferred habitat. For instance, larvae of *An. willmori*
are found only along stream margins at altitudes between 990m and 1450m
in northern Thailand, whereas larvae of *An. pseudowillmori* have been
collected primarily in rice fields, stream margins, ponds, pits and
wells. *An. maculatus* prefers to use pools of water formed on the banks
of rivers and waterfalls most commonly shallow pools 5-15cm deep with
clear water, mud substrate and emergent plants. This species also
requires, or strongly prefers, open to partially shaded habitats.
Habitats are commonly located at 100m to 400m from the nearest human
settlement.

### Resting and feeding preferences

In general, females are more strongly attracted to cattle than humans,
but freely bite people both inside and outside houses. *An. maculatus*
and *An. sawadwongporni* appear to be the least zoophilic of the species
and exhibit early biting activity, peaking between 18:00 and 21:00. *An.
dispar* and *An. greeni* exhibit strong exophagic and zoophilic
behaviours. The combination of the early evening biting activity of
these malaria vectors (particularly *An. maculatus* and *An.
sawadwongporni*) and their zoophilic and exophilic tendencies indicates
that they will be less affected by vector control methods based on
indoor residual spraying and insecticide-treated bed nets. However, a
strategy of creating a barrier using insecticide on vegetation near
cattle or other animal hosts may provide significant in the control of
these vectors.

### Vectorial capacity

Members of the *Maculatus* Group are variously involved in malaria
transmission. However, the vector role of each species is not precisely
known and their vectorial capacity appears to vary depending on
geographical location. *An. maculatus* has the widest distribution of
all species of the group but it is only an important vector of human
malarial parasites in hilly areas of eastern India, southern Thailand,
peninsular Malaysia and south-central Java. *Anopheles sawadwongporni*
is considered an important vector in Thailand and *An. pseudowillmori*
is a secondary vector in northwestern Thailand along the Myanmar border.
*Anopheles willmori* is one of the primary vectors in Nepal, but it is
seldom collected in Thailand and does not appear to be involved in
malaria transmission there. *Anopheles dispar* and *An. greeniare*
regarded as secondary vectors in the Philippines. *Anopheles
notanandai*, *An. dravidicus* and *An. rampae* are not known to be
involved in malaria transmission.

This text was modified from Sinka ME et al. (2011) [The dominant
Anopheles vectors of human malaria in Asia-Pacific: occurrence data,
distribution maps and bionomic
pr√©cis](http://www.parasitesandvectors.com/content/4/1/89) Parasites &
Vectors 4:89.

*maculatus3* strain
-------------------

These individuals were collected from Kuala Lumpur and sequencing was
performed on preserved females donated by Lee Han Lim. No colony is
available.

Source:
[VectorBase](https://veupathdb.org/veupathdb/app/search/dataset/AllDatasets/result?filterTerm=GCA_000473185.1)
