
**NOTE:** The genome sequence and annotation for *S. mansoni* are
updated in Ensembl Metazoa infrequently. For the
latest genome and annotation, please visit [WormBase
ParaSite](https://parasite.wormbase.org/Schistosoma_mansoni_prjea36577).

About *Schistosoma mansoni*
---------------------------

*Schistosoma mansoni* is one of a genus of trematodes that are commonly
called blood-flukes, and is a significant parasite of humans and a major
agent of the disease schistosomiasis. *S. mansoni* goes through several
asexual reproductive stages in an intermediate host, a freshwater snail,
from which many thousands of motile larval forms (cercaria) emerge. The
cercaria can quickly penetrate human skin, and within a few days enter
the circulatory system, where they feed on blood. The adult stage of *S.
mansoni* has two sexes, in contrast to the hermaphroditic nature of most
trematodes, and if a larva encounters a member of the opposite sex it
develops into a sexually mature adult and the two larvae form a
monogamous pairing. Females can lay hundreds of eggs per day, and these
migrate to the intestines and then enter the environment in faeces,
ready to hatch and infect snail hosts. In (intestinal) schistosomiasis,
an immune response is initiated when eggs become trapped in the
intestinal wall, or other organs such as the liver, and it is this
severe immune response that underlies the disease pathology.

-   [*S. mansoni* data at WormBase
    ParaSite](https://parasite.wormbase.org/Schistosoma_mansoni_prjea36577).
-   [Schistosomiasis information by CDC](https://www.cdc.gov/dpdx/schistosomiasis/index.html). 

Picture credit:
[Public domain](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Main_Page) via Wikimedia Commons [(Image source)](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Schistosoma_mansoni2.jpg)

