About *Anopheles minimus*
-------------------------

### Range

The *Anopheles minimus* complex includes *A. minumus sensu stricto*
(formerly *A. minimus A*), which is located from northern India
eastwards through Vietnam and northward across southern China, including
Taiwan. *Anopheles minumus sensu stricto* is one of the main malaria
vectors in the mainland of Southeast Asia.

### Habitats

Larvae are generally found in small to moderate-sized streams or canals
with slow running, clear and cool water, partially shaded and with
grassy margins where females prefer to lay their eggs. They develop in
various pools (rock, ground, stream and seepage). Unusual larval
habitats for *An. minimus* (e.g. rain water tanks) have also been
reported in the suburbs of Hanoi, Vietnam. *Anopheles minimus s.l.* is
commonly found at elevations ranging from 200m to 900m but is rare at
altitudes above 1500m. In northern Vietnam and western Thailand, *An.*
*minimus* occupies a greater variety of habitats, ranging from dense
canopy forest to open agricultural fields, particularly traditional rice
agro-ecosystems. *Anopheles harrisoni* has a narrower habitat
preference, being more closely linked to recently altered
agro-ecosystems (e.g. maize cultivation) in deforested areas.

### Resting and feeding preferences

The adult behaviour of *An. minimus s.l.* is reported as highly diverse
for two main reasons: (1) most studies do not differentiate *An.
minimus* and *An. harrisoni* and (2) these two species are highly
opportunistic in their habits, exhibiting considerable behavioural and
ecological plasticity. Females of *An. minimus* mainly bite humans (up
to 93% in Assam, India), but the degree of anthropophily/zoophily
depends on the availability of alternative hosts (e.g. cattle). This
species is mainly endophagic in India, Thailand and central Vietnam, and
more exophagic in Cambodia and northern Vietnam. Studies showed that
housing in central Vietnam, made with incomplete walls of split bamboo
and very large eaves, allows easy entry of the mosquito which would
otherwise show exophagic behaviour. Its resting behaviour is reported as
exophilic in southern China, Thailand and Vietnam, and mainly endophilic
in India. However, the degree of endophagy and endophily of *An.
minimus* is also largely influenced by the use of indoor residual
spraying, provoking either a modified behavioural response or a drastic
reduction in population density. In contrast, the few studies conducted
on *An. harrisoni* have shown a greater tendency for exophagy, exophily
and zoophily. *Anopheles harrisoni* exhibits two peaks of biting
activity in western Thailand, the first in the early evening, between
18:00 and 21:00, with a second, smaller peak from midnight to 02:00 or
from 03:00 to 06:00. The early evening peak (before 22:00) has also been
observed in northern Vietnam. *Anopheles minimus* tends to bite later,
with peak activity occurring around 22:00 in Cambodia and Thailand,
after 22:00 in Vietnam and between 01:00- 04:00 in Assam, India.

### Vectorial capacity

*An. minimus* and *An. harrisoni*, are vectors of malaria parasites
throughout their respective distributions, although further
investigation needs to be conducted on *An. harrisoni* as its role in
malaria transmission appears weaker than that of *An. minimus*, despite
it being reported as a main vector in China. *An. minimus s.l.* is
considered a primary malaria vector in the hilly forested regions of
mainland Southeast Asia.

This text was modified from Sinka ME et al. (2011) [The dominant
Anopheles vectors of human malaria in Asia-Pacific: occurrence data,
distribution maps and bionomic
pr√©cis](http://www.parasitesandvectors.com/content/4/1/89) Parasites &
Vectors 4:89.

*MINIMUS1* strain
-----------------

Originally isolated from Thailand, no isofemale subcolony selection was
done prior to genome sequencing. This strain is available form [BEI
resources](http://www.beiresources.org).

Source:
[VectorBase](https://veupathdb.org/veupathdb/app/search/dataset/AllDatasets/result?filterTerm=GCA_000349025.1)
