About *Biomphalaria glabrata*
-----------------------------

Freshwater snails of the genus *Biomphalaria* are intermediate hosts for
flatworm parasites of the genus *Schistosoma*, causative pathogens of
human schistosomiasis, in South America, the Greater and Lesser
Antilles, Africa, Madagascar and the Arabian peninsula. *Biomphalaria
glabrata*, a neotropical snail, is the major intermediate host of
*Schistosoma mansoni*.

Patently infected *B. glabrata* snails shed and seed their aquatic
environment with numerous free-swimming cercariae, the stage of *S.
mansoni* that is infective for humans. Water contact leads to infection
because cercariae can actively penetrate human skin. Inside the human
host, schistosome parasites mature and reproduce sexually. Parasite eggs
are released in the feces and/or urine of infected humans. Parasite
larvae called miracidia hatch from the eggs and swim to locate and
infect *B. glabrata* for completion of the *S. mansoni* life cycle.

*BB02* strain
-------------

Biomphalaria glabrata snails were collected by Omar dos Santos Carvalho
(CPRR/Fiocruz) in the south east of Brazil (19o59\' S 44o02\' W), Belo
Horizonte, district of Barreiro. Morphology-based species identification
was confirmed by PCR\_RFLP; 16S rDNA, NADH dehydrogenase 1 sequences
(AY737280, AY737281). Lab-reared offspring of the wild caught snails
proved susceptible to multiple strains of Schistosoma mansoni. BB02
snails are maintained as inbred lines at several research groups. A BAC
library is available for this strain from the Arizona Genomics Institute
(Tucson AZ, USA).

Genomic DNA was extracted from whole body soft tissues minus the
reproductive organs of adult BB02 snails (Coen Adema, UNM) and applied
for genome sequencing at The Genomics Institute (TGI), Washington
University, St Louis MO.

Source:
[VectorBase](https://veupathdb.org/veupathdb/app/search/dataset/AllDatasets/result?filterTerm=GCA_000457365.1)
