About *Anopheles funestus*
--------------------------

### Range

*Anopheles funestus* has a wide geographic distribution, extending
throughout Africa where is one of the most important vectors of malaria.

### Habitats

A typical *An. funestus* larval habitat is a large, permanent or
semi-permanent body of fresh water with emergent vegetation, such as
swamps, large ponds and lake edges. Larvae have been found in shaded and
sunlit environments where *An. funestus* may use emergent vegetation as
refuge against predation while the shading it casts, or the presence of
shade from overhanging plants, is of lesser importance. In some areas,
*An. funestus* larvae are associated with rice cultivation (e.g.
Madagascar, Mali) and replaces *An. arabiensis* in a successive temporal
process during rice plant growth, exhibiting higher densities in older,
maturing fields compared to the preceding open conditions preferred by
*An. arabiensis*. *An. funestus* is a highly adaptable species, allowing
it to occupy and maintain its wide distribution and utilise and conform
to the many habitat types and climatic conditions contained therein.

### Resting and feeding preferences

*An. funestus* is considered to be highly anthropophilic. Behaviourally,
its late-night biting patterns potentially allows ready access to human
blood without incurring undue density-dependant host avoidance. This
late-night biting preference is clearly evident throughout its range,
with peak biting period generally occurring after 22:00, commonly
between midnight and the early hours of the morning. Endophilic resting
behaviour is also commonly reported, allowing successful vector control
using indoor residual spraying and insecticide-treated nets. However,
insecticide exposure has resulted in selection pressure and rapid
development of insecticide resistance to pyrethroids, now well
established in some populations. Compared to other dominant vector
species in Africa, *An. funestus* shows fairly consistent behaviour
(generally anthropophilic and endophilic) throughout its range but some
behavioural differences have been reported. For example, anthropophilic
behaviour has been found in western Senegal and zoophilic behaviour in
the east of the country.

### Vectorial capacity

*An. funestus* is regarded as an important vector of malaria. The
endophilic resting behaviour of *An. funestus* combined with a
relatively high longevity, makes it as good a vector, or better in some
areas, as *An. gambiae*. Insecticide resistance to pyrethroids, now well
established in some *An. funestus* populations, has been implicated as
the primary reason for a major resurgence of epidemic malaria reported
in Kwazulu-Natal, South Africa in the late 1990s.

This text was modified from Sinka ME et al. (2010) [The dominant
Anopheles vectors of human malaria in Africa, Europe and the Middle
East: occurrence data, distribution maps and bionomic
pr√©cis](http://www.parasitesandvectors.com/content/3/1/117) Parasites &
Vectors 3:117.

*FUMOZ* strain
--------------

Originally isolated in Mozambique. There was no isofemale subcolony
selection. The strain is available from [BEI
resources](https://www.beiresources.org).

Source:
[VectorBase](https://veupathdb.org/veupathdb/app/search/dataset/AllDatasets/result?filterTerm=GCA_003951495.1)
