About *Anopheles melas*
-----------------------

### Range

*Anopheles melas* belongs to the *Anopheles gambiae* species complex,
which consists of at least seven species, and it is a locally important
vector in coastal western Africa.

### Habitats

*An. melas* is commonly associated with brackish water and can utilise
saline environments, yet does not appear to require brackish water for
larval stage development. It is generally restricted to coastal areas
but has been found up to 150km inland along the Gambia River, where salt
water can intrude great distances (up to 180km) upriver. Unlike other
African dominant vector species, the density fluctuations of *An. melas*
are closely associated with tidal changes rather than seasons, and a
peak in adult numbers 11 days after spring tides has been recorded. The
larvae of this species are associated with salt marsh grass (*Paspalum*
species) and mangroves, but only those of the genus Avicenna, which
include white, grey and black mangrove, and not from the genus
Rhizophora ('true' or red mangrove spp.). These positive and negative
associations are thought to be strongly influenced by the predominant
soil type associated with the different tree genera, The poorly drained,
peaty-like soil common to Avicenna forests appears preferable to *An.
melas* compared to the sandy, gravelly or smooth, fibrous peat soils
common to the Rhizophora stands. *An. melas* oviposits on damp ground at
low tide rather than in open water, and the eggs are able to survive
some degree of desiccation until the tides rise again. This behaviour
may guarantee the larvae will have sufficient time to complete their
larval development and pupate in the less saline, relatively permanent
waters of the new tide before it begins to recede and the water either
becomes too salty, or dries out completely.

### Resting and feeding preferences

Adult biting behaviour appears to be opportunistic. *An. melas* has been
described as both highly anthropophilic and a zoophilic species and has
been shown to be fairly indiscriminate in host choice. *An. melas*
generally rests outdoors after feeding, although there has been limited
success in locating and collecting from such natural outdoor resting
sites. Those females that do bite and rest indoors are more likely to
have fed on humans whereas those biting or resting outdoors (or in
animal sheds) are more likely to have bitten animals. Blood feeding
activity appears to be fairly continuous throughout the night.

### Vectorial capacity

*An. melas* is generally considered to be a vector of lesser importance
where it occurs in in the same places as *An. gambiae* or *An.
arabiensis*. However, in coastal areas, where it can occur in very high
densities, it is still a problematic vector of malaria.

This text was modified from Sinka ME et al. (2010) [The dominant
Anopheles vectors of human malaria in Africa, Europe and the Middle
East: occurrence data, distribution maps and bionomic
pr√©cis](http://www.parasitesandvectors.com/content/3/1/117) Parasites &
Vectors 3:117.

*CM1001059\_A* strain
---------------------

Originally isolated from wild individuals collected in Cameroon (2.378
North, 9.828 East, Campo, 2010), mosquitoes were donated by Carlo
Costantini. The colony was not subject to isofemale selection.

Source:
[VectorBase](https://veupathdb.org/veupathdb/app/search/dataset/AllDatasets/result?filterTerm=GCA_000473525.2)
