About *Anopheles culicifacies A*
--------------------------------

### Range

*Anopheles culicifacies* is a complex of five species found in Cambodia,
China, Ethiopia, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Vietnam, India, Iran and
Pakistan, and *An, culicifacies A* is a malaria vector found in these
last three countries.

The Culicifacies Complex includes five species informally named species
*A, B, C, D* and *E*. The bionomics and ecology of the species within
this complex have been largely studied in India and Sri Lanka, and there
is a general lack of detailed information from other regions, especially
the western areas of its range.

### Habitat

The species of the *Culicifacies* Complex occur in different habitats,
ranging from forested areas with perennial streams to deforested
riverine ecosystems and irrigated areas. Larval habitats include
irrigated canals, stream margins, seepages, borrow pits, hoof marks,
rock pools, sandy pools near rice fields, rock quarries, newly dug pits,
ponds, domestic wells, tanks and gutters. Immature stages develop in
fresh-water habitats but tolerance to moderate salinity has been
reported in Oman where larvae have been collected in concrete reservoir
tanks containing brackish water. Similarly, species *E* is able to
tolerate variable salinity caused by monsoonal rain in Sri Lanka. It
exploits a wide range of aquatic habitats in Sri Lanka, reflecting the
significant environmental adaptability of this malaria vector. *An.
culicifacies C* has been observed to greatly outnumber species *B* in
forested areas of Orissa, India whereas species *C* was found to be most
common in deforested areas. In India, species *A* has been shown to be
more abundant in villages with domestic wells, whereas species *B* was
found in higher densities in villages with streams. Species of the
Culicifacies Complex are abundant in plains, hilly and mountainous areas
up to elevations of 1500m to 2000m in Afghanistan (Kabul region) and the
Indian Himalayas.

### Resting and feeding preference

Adult biting activity can occur during the first half of the night in
cooler months (November-March) and during the second and third quarters
of the evening in the warmer months (September-October), although peak
biting activity has also been reported as occurring around 23:00 to
midnight. Post-feeding behaviour of the species showed a higher tendency
for resting indoors, mainly in cattle sheds, but outdoor resting has
also been reported. As members of the *Culicifacies* Complex exhibit
distinctly different behaviour, a more thorough study of the bionomics
of each species must be undertaken to specifically and efficiently
target control efforts against those species involved in malaria
transmission.

### Vectorial capacity

Four species of the complex (*A, C, D, E*) are reportedly malaria
vectors in India where it is estimated they are responsible for
transmitting 60-65% of all cases of malaria in peri-urban and urban
environments. *Anopheles culicifacies E*, due to its high anthropophilic
and endophilic behaviour, is the most important and efficient vector of
*Plasmodium falciparum* and *P. vivax* in southern India and Sri Lanka.
Species *A*, *C* and *D* appear to be mainly zoophilic. Therefore, these
three species generally play very minor roles in malaria transmission
although species *C* was found to be responsible for local malaria
transmission in deforested riverine areas of central India. Due to its
highly zoophilic behaviour, species *B* is considered to be a poor or
non-vector.

This text was modified from Sinka ME et al. (2011) [The dominant
Anopheles vectors of human malaria in Asia-Pacific region: occurrence
data, distribution maps and bionomic
pr√©cis](http://parasitesandvectors.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/1756-3305-4-89)
Parasites & Vectors 4:89.

*A-37* strain
-------------

Originally isolated from wild individuals collected in Iran (Ghoran
village, May 2010), mosquitoes were donated by Mohammad Oshagi and Igor
Sharakhov (Virginia Tech). There is no colony.

Source:
[VectorBase](https://veupathdb.org/veupathdb/app/search/dataset/AllDatasets/result?filterTerm=GCA_000473375.1)
