About *Anopheles sinensis*
--------------------------

### Range

*Anopheles sinensis* is considered an important vector of *P.vivax* in
China and Korea. It is common throughout South East Asia from Pakistan
to Japan and as far south as Thailand and Indonesia.

### Habitats

The immature stages of *An. sinensis* are primarily found in lowland,
shallow, fresh-water habitats with emergent and/or floating vegetation
in open agriculture lands (mainly rice fields). They also utilise stream
margins, irrigation ditches, ponds, marshes, swamps, bogs, pits, stump
ground holes, grassy pools, flood pools, stream pools, rock pools,
seepage-springs and wheel tracks. Shading requirements vary, but this
species is more often associated with exposed and sunlit aquatic
environments.

### Resting and feeding preferences

Female *An. sinensis* feed throughout the night, with peak activity
apparently occurring at different hours depending on locality. Under
normal circumstances, females are predominantly zoophilic and exophilic,
infrequently biting humans in the presence of their preferred hosts
(buffalo and cattle), and are rarely found inside human habitations. In
northern temperate climates, *An. sinensis* females hibernate in
sheltered places from the end of October.

### Vectorial capacity

There is evidence that *An. sinensis* is refractory to *Plasmodium
falciparum*, but it is still considered an important vector of *P.
vivax* malaria in both China and Korea. It is the most common anopheline
species in Japan, where it is regarded as an important historical vector
of malaria. *An. sinensis* is considered to be a minor malaria vector in
Indonesia (Sumatra only) and has little or no involvement in malaria
transmission in Thailand due to its zoophilic and exophilic behaviour
and its prevalence primarily in areas where there is little or no
malaria. Along the border between North and South Korea, it has been
reported that *An. sinensis* comprised 80% of the *anopheline*
mosquitoes attacking humans during an outbreak of *P. vivax* malaria but
studies suggest that *An. sinensis* is a less effective vector of
malaria in Korea than *An. lesteri*. The zoophilic and exophilic
behaviour of this species suggests its vectorial capacity may be high
only in the presence of large population densities.

This text was modified from Sinka ME et al. (2011) [The dominant
Anopheles vectors of human malaria in Asia-Pacific: occurrence data,
distribution maps and bionomic
pr√©cis](http://www.parasitesandvectors.com/content/4/1/89) Parasites &
Vectors 4:89.

*SINENSIS* strain
-----------------

Originally isolated from Korea, isofemale selection was performed prior
to genome sequencing (this strain is available from [BEI
resources](https://www.beiresources.org/)).

For more details about the strain:

Neafsey et al (121 authors). 2015. Highly evolvable malaria vectors: The
genomes of 16 Anopheles mosquitoes. Science. Published Online November
27 2014

Source:
[VectorBase](https://veupathdb.org/veupathdb/app/search/dataset/AllDatasets/result?filterTerm=GCA_000472065.2)
