About *Anopheles darlingi*
--------------------------

### Range

*Anopheles darlingi* is one of the most important vectors of malaria in
the Neotropics (Mexico, Central and South America), with populations
from southern Mexico to Argentina.

### Habitat

*An. darlingi* is a riverine mosquito, generally confined to rural,
lowland forested locations. Deforestation and other human driven
environmental change can create habitats which are favourable, with *An.
darlingi* reportedly found at higher densities in areas with limited
forest cover than in those predominated by forest. The larval habitats
of *An. darlingi* can be characterized as natural water bodies such as
lagoons, lakes and particularly slow flowing streams or rivers with
shaded, clear water associated with submersed vegetation such as bamboo
roots from overhanging spiny bamboo. Larvae are encountered most
frequently in patches of floating debris along river margins. There are
examples of larvae being found in uncharacteristic locations, such as in
slightly brackish water; in low numbers in turbid, polluted water (brick
pits); and in abandoned gold mine dugouts in southern Venezuela, further
suggesting a level of adaptability to areas altered by humans. Moreover,
*An. darlingi* appears to be adapting to higher altitude habitats with
specimens recently collected at altitudes above 800m in Venezuela, close
to the Brazilian border (Roraima).

### Resting and feeding preferences

*An. darlingi* tends to rest outdoors regardless of where it has taken
its blood meal. Adults will bite throughout the night and the degree of
endo- and exophagy of this species varies from one place to another as
does its host preference. It has been suggested that the biting pattern
of *An. darlingi* may represent an adaptation to human behaviour, for
example, the all night activity of *An. darlingi* in the gold mining
areas of southern Venezuela may be a response to the all night activity
of the miners. Furthermore, a number of studies that report exophagy in
this species may be linked to sites where indoor insecticide spraying is
or has recently been used for vector control.

### Vectorial capacity

*An. darlingi* is considered to be one of the most efficient malaria
vectors in the Neotropical region.

*Coari* strain
--------------

Originally isolated from Brazil. The Coari strain of *An. darling* were
collected from the shores of Lake Coari, close to the city of Coari in
Amazonas State. This area has had a high malaria incidence reported over
the past 15 year and entomological surveys suggest that transmission is
almost exclusively via *An. darling*. Female mosquitoes were collected
from the Santa Luzia Buiu√ßuzinho community approximately 20km from
Coari. Gravid females were allowed to spawn and DNA extracted from 4th
stage larvae.

Source:
[VectorBase](https://veupathdb.org/veupathdb/app/search/dataset/AllDatasets/result?filterTerm=GCA_000211455.3)

Picture credit (public domain): [Wikimedia
Commons](http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Anophelesdarlingi.jpg)
2011
