About *Anopheles* *arabiensis*
------------------------------

### Range

*Anopheles arabiensis* belongs to the *An. gambiae* species complex, and
is one of the most important vectors of malaria in sub-Saharan Africa
and surrounding islands.

### Habitats

*Anopheles arabiensis* is considered a species of dry, savannah
environments and sparse woodland yet it is known to occur in forested
areas, but only where there is a history of recent land disturbance or
clearance. Its larval habitats are generally small, temporary, sunlit,
clear and shallow fresh water pools, although *An. arabiensis* is able
to utilize a variety of habitats including slow flowing, partially
shaded streams and a variety of large and small natural and man-made
habitats. It has been found in turbid waters and, on occasion, in
brackish habitats. It readily makes use of irrigated rice fields where
larval densities are related to the height of the rice, peaking when the
plants are still relatively short and then dropping off substantially as
the rice plants mature. Such density fluctuations are also reflected in
the adult population, which also peak when rice stalks are small and
decline as the plants mature. These patterns may be due to a preference
for sunlit areas of water with relatively limited emergent vegetation,
with densities decreasing as shade from the growing plants increases.

### Resting and feeding preferences

*An. arabiensis* is described as a zoophilic, exophagic and exophilic
species. However, it is also known to have a wide range of feeding and
resting patterns, depending on geographical location. This behavioural
plasticity allows *An. arabiensis* to adapt quickly to counter indoor
residual spraying control showing behavioural avoidance of sprayed
surfaces depending on the type of insecticide used. The behavioural
variability of *An. arabiensis* is clearly evident with reports of both
anthropophilic and zoophilic behaviour. An east-west behavioural cline
has been suggested where populations found in western Africa display
higher levels of anthropophily, and preferentially feed and rest
indoors, whereas those in the east exhibit greater zoophily and rest
outdoors. Overall, however, biting patterns tend to be exophagic. Blood
feeding times also vary in frequency but biting generally occurs during
the night. Peak evening biting times can begin in the early evening
(19:00) or early morning (03:00). This species, demonstrates a
predisposition to exophilic (or partial exophilic) behaviour regardless
of where it has blood fed or the source of its meal, a behavioural trait
considered to be depend on location.

### Vectorial capacity

*Anopheles arabiensis* is considered to be a dominant malaria vector
species.

This text was modified from Sinka ME et al. (2010) [The dominant
Anopheles vectors of human malaria in Africa, Europe and the Middle
East: occurrence data, distribution maps and bionomic
pr√©cis](http://www.parasitesandvectors.com/content/3/1/117) Parasites &
Vectors 3:117.

*Dongola* strain
----------------

Strain used for sequencing. Originally isolated from Sudan the colony
has undergone isofemale selection, and is available from the [BEI
resource](https://www.beiresources.org) center.

Source:
[VectorBase](https://veupathdb.org/veupathdb/app/search/dataset/AllDatasets/result?filterTerm=GCA_000349185.1)

Picture credit:
James Gathany, CDC [Public domain](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Main_Page) via Wikimedia Commons [(Image source)](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Anopheles-arabiensis.png)
