metazoa/species/Homarus/Homarus_gammarus/Homarus_gammarus_gca958450375v1_about.md, before:

**About *Homarus gammarus***
-------------------------
*Homarus gammarus*, known as the European lobster (*Homarus gammarus*) 
or common lobster, is a species of clawed lobster from the eastern 
Atlantic Ocean, Mediterranean Sea and parts of the Black Sea. It is 
closely related to the American lobster, *H.americanus*. It may grow to 
a length of 60cm (24in) and a mass of 6 kilograms (13lb), and bears 
a conspicuous pair of claws. In life the lobsters are blue, only 
becoming "lobster red" on cooking. Mating occurs in the summer, 
producing eggs which are carried by the females for up to a year 
before hatching into planktonic larvae. Homarus gammarus is a highly 
esteemed food, and is widely caught using lobster pots, mostly around 
the British Isles.

Picture credit: [Public domain](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Main_Page) via Wikimedia Commons [(Image source)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:KreeftbijDenOsse.jpg)

Taxonomy ID [6707](https://www.uniprot.org/taxonomy/6707)

(Text from [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/).)

**More information**
General information about this species can be found in [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homarus_gammarus)

Commit message:

Update Euro lobster with collab suggestions

metazoa/species/Homarus/Homarus_gammarus/Homarus_gammarus_gca958450375v1_about.md, after:

**About *Homarus gammarus***
-------------------------
*Homarus gammarus*, known as the European lobster, is a species of clawed lobster found in rocky substrate 
habitats from across the eastern Atlantic Ocean and throughout the Mediterranean Sea [1]. The species is 
closely related to the American lobster, *H.americanus*, which it occasionally hybridises with in the wild [2]. 
It may grow to a length of 60cm (24in) and a mass of 6 kilograms (13lb), and bears a conspicuous pair of claws. 
In life the lobsters are blue (sometimes dark navy), only becoming "lobster red" on cooking. Mating occurs in 
the summer, producing eggs which are carried by the females for up to a year before hatching into planktonic 
larvae. *Homarus gammarus* is a highly esteemed seafood, and is widely caught using baited lobster pots, 
mostly around the British Isles and France.

Picture credit: [Public domain](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Main_Page) via Wikimedia Commons [(Image source)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:KreeftbijDenOsse.jpg)

Taxonomy ID [6707](https://www.uniprot.org/taxonomy/6707)

(Text adapted from [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/).)

**More information**
General information about this species can be found in [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homarus_gammarus)
