Assembly
--------

As described in [Holt et al.
(2002)](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=12364791), plasmid and
BAC DNA libraries were constructed with stringently size-selected PEST
strain DNA. Two BAC libraries were constructed, one (ND-TAM) using DNA
from whole adult male and female mosquitoes and the other (ND-1) using
DNA from ovaries of PEST females collected about 24 hours after the
blood meal. Plasmid libraries containing inserts of 2.5, 10 and 50 kb
were constructed with DNA derived from either 330 male or 430 female
mosquitoes. For each sex, several libraries of each insert size class
were made, and these were sequenced such that there was approximately
equal coverage from male and female mosquitoes in the final data set.
Celera Genomics, Genoscope and TIGR contributed sequence data that
collectively provided 10.2-fold coverage, assuming a genome size of 278
Mb. The whole-genome data set was assembled with the Celera assembler
(MOZ1 assembly), which constituted the basis of the primary genome
publication (Holt et al. 2002).

The first update to this assembly (MOZ2) involved the results of a
concerted effort to correct some of the ambiguities in scaffold map
locations and orientations by manual analysis of the archived BAC
chromosome hybridization photographs and by the hybridization of a small
number of new BAC clones selected to resolve questions of scaffold
orientation. The new AGP file, and early draft of which was first
displayed on the *An. gambiae* genome poster published in the 4 October
2002 issue of science, formed the basis of a new annotation and gene
build displayed on 1 October 2003 (MOZ2) ([Mongin et al.
2004)](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=14747013). This assembly
is also 278 Mb.

In 2006, the major scaffolds were re-ordered into a new golden path file
by use of additional physically mapped BAC clones combined with
scaffold-to-scaffold sequence comparisons that identified some sequence
overlaps. The AgamP3 assembly has a total of 80 scaffolds assigned to
and ordered on the chromosome arms X, 2R, 2L, 3R and 3L, 28 of which are
newly mapped or oriented. The most significant improvement in this new
assembly is 24 scaffolds (8.64 Mbp) located to pericentromeric regions.
However, this does not complete the centromeric region of any of the
chromosomes. The new GenBank entries, CM000356-CM000360, reflect the
revised 2L, 2R, 3L, 3R and X chromosome assemblies. This new assembly
(AgamP3) of non-redundant \~264 Mb is still probably an overestimation
of the true genome size ([Sharakhova et al.
2007](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=17210077)).

**The AgamP4 assembly differs from the previous version, AgamP3, by the
addition of the mitochondrial genome (L20934, 16,655 bp) which includes
13 protein-coding and 24 ncRNAs (22 tRNA and 2 rRNA genes).**

Source:
[VectorBase](https://veupathdb.org/veupathdb/app/search/dataset/AllDatasets/result?filterTerm=GCA_000005575.2)
