About *Anopheles gambiae*
-------------------------

### Range

Anopheles gambiae senso stricto is the primary mosquito vector
responsible for the transmission of malaria in most of sub-Saharan
Africa. It is a member of a species complex that includes at least seven
morphologically indistinguishable species in the Series Pyretophorus in
the Anopheles subgenus Cellia. Anopheles gambiae feeds preferentially on
humans and is one of the most efficient malaria vectors known. Anopheles
gambiae senso stricto is now known to consist of two genetically
distinct forms or incipient species, known formally as the A. gambiae M
and A. gambiae S forms. Colonies of these two forms have also been
sequenced, assembled and provided here on VectorBase as the A. gambiae
Mali-NIH (M) and A. gambiae Pimperena (S) genomes.

### Habitats

An. gambiae larvae are generally considered to typically inhabit sunlit,
shallow, temporary bodies of fresh water such as ground depressions,
puddles, pools and hoof prints . This characteristic may allow predator
avoidance as the larvae are able to develop very quickly (\~six days
from egg to adult under optimal conditions), possibly in response to the
ephemeral nature of such larval habitats. An. gambiae larval habitats
are therefore often described as containing no (or very sparse)
vegetation due to their temporary nature but the great diversity of
habitats utilised by An. gambiae includes vegetated (e.g. rice fields)
sites. An. gambiae larvae have been reported from habitats containing
floating and submerged algae, emergent grass, rice, or 'short plants'
and from sites devoid of any vegetation, The variability of larval
habitats can be related to the known forms of An. gambiae (e.g. M and S,
or Forest, Bamako, Savanna, Mopti and Bissau). For example, the Mopti
and M forms are associated with semi-permanent, often man-made, larval
habitats such as rice fields or flooded areas, whereas the
Savanna/Bamako and S forms are seen more commonly in temporary,
rain-dependent sites such as ground puddles.

### Resting and feeding preferences

An. gambiae is highly anthropophilic, however, there are indications
that An. gambiae can be less discriminant and more opportunistic in its
host selection and that host choice is highly influenced by location,
host availability and the genetic make-up of the mosquito population.
Females of An. gambiae typically feed late at night and are often
described as both endophagic and endophilic. Yet there is evidence that
indoor and outoor biting are common and both indoor and outdoor resting
behaviour appear to be regularly reported. For example, in southern
Sierra Leone strong exophily has been demonstrated, linked to the Forest
form. Conversely, endophilic behaviour has been linked to Savannah
forms. As with host preference, this species appears to exhibit
phenotypic plasticity and opportunism in resting locations.

### Vectorial capacity

An. gambiae is considered to be one of the most efficient vectors of
malaria in the world.

This text was modified from Sinka ME et al. (2010) [The dominant
Anopheles vectors of human malaria in Africa, Europe and the Middle
East: occurrence data, distribution maps and bionomic
pr√©cis](http://www.parasitesandvectors.com/content/3/1/117) Parasites &
Vectors 3:117.

*PEST* strain
-------------

The *Anopheles gambiae PEST* strain was chosen for genome sequencing
because it had both a fixed, standard chromosomal arrangement and a
sex-linked pink eye mutation that could readily be used as an indicator
of cross-colony contamination (Holt et al 2002: PMID 12364791). The pink
eye mutation originated in a colony called *A. gambiae LPE* established
in 1951 at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine from
mosquitoes collected in Lagos, Nigeria. In 1986, this mutation was
introduced into a colony of *A. gambiae* from Asembo Bay western Kenya
by crossing males of the *LPE* strain with female offspring of wild
caught Kenyan *A. gambiae* (the *Savanna* form), selecting males from
the F2 of this cross and then crossing them again with additional female
offspring of wild caught Kenyan *A. gambiae*. From the F2 offspring of
this second outcross to Kenyan mosquitoes, a strain was selected that
was fixed for pink eye. This outcrossing scheme was repeated one more
time in 1987 producing a pink eye strain with a genetic composition
largely constituted of the western Kenya Savanna cytogenetic form. In
each of these crosses, several hundred female offspring of at least 20
wild caught mosquitoes were used in the cross. This strain, designated
*A. gambiae PE* (Pink Eye), was polymorphic for the inversions *2La*
(32%) and *2Rbc* (19%). The *2Rbc* inversion is characteristic of the
*Mopti* chromosomal form, indicating that the original *LPE* strain from
Nigeria was the *Mopti* form, which is the *M* molecular form. This
inversion was apparently balanced by the uninverted form, because no
*2Rbc/bc* individuals were detected in the colony. Mukabayire and
Besansky selected from this *PE* strain a set of 9 families whose female
parent and at least 20 female offspring were fixed for the standard
chromosome karyotype. The progeny of these nine families were pooled to
form the *A. gambiae PEST* strain (Pink Eye STandard). This strain
clearly had some *Mopti*-derived DNA, as the standard karyotype is
shared by *Mopti* and *Savanna* and the original *PE* strain did have
the *2Rbc* inversion rather than *2Rb* that is typical of *Savanna*.
Clones from two different *PEST* strain BAC (Bacterial Artificial
Chromosome) libraries had already been end sequenced and physically
mapped. When tested, this colony was fully susceptible to *P.
falciparum* from western Kenya. DNA preparation and library construction
methods were conducted following standard protocols, and the sequencing
method was whole-genome Sanger sequencing. Subsequent to sequencing, the
*PEST* strain was found to be polymorphic for molecular markers
diagnostic of the *A. gambiae M* and *S* molecular forms. The last known
isolate of the *A. gambiae PEST* colony was lost in about 2005.

Source:
[VectorBase](https://veupathdb.org/veupathdb/app/search/dataset/AllDatasets/result?filterTerm=GCA_000005575.2)

Picture credit (public domain): [James
Gathany](http://phil.cdc.gov/phil/details_linked.asp?pid=1354) (CDC)
1994
